#summary Project Progress

= Daily Log =

==4/17/09==
  * tried to output pwm data from luminary board directly to one of the helicopter servos. Unfortunately, broke the gears in one of the servos!!! Will need to replace servo, and go to lab to check the pwm output again on the oscilloscopes. Perhaps the PWM's are too unsteady? looking into alternate methods to output pwm (use arduino instead).  PCB layout updated and waiting for final tests on Wednesday before sending in.  Figuring out communication between magnetometer and Luminary via SPI.

==4/16/09==
  * worked on I2C, have some C- code working for the arduino 
  * researched some (extended) kalman filtering.

==4/15/09==
  * Recalibrated pulsewidths to fit with servo data better.

==4/10/09==
  * Mixing vi won't compile on ARM projects. Rewrote vi to use formula-node in labview (which didn't work) then again to use the C-node, which works! edited vi a bit to output pulsewidths

==4/8/09==
  * Tried new method for outputting low frequency pwm (around 60 Hz, period of 17 ms) with 50% pwm. --> though getting a saw tooth signal through the oscilloscope
    * May be labiew problem. will try out using C-node to try to get better output later
  * Blue tooth is working real-time. Though stuck on trying to send back a PID value to the Luminary to have it change real-time. 

==4/7/09==
  * developed new method for outputting low frequency pwm's through luminary digital outputs. Will be using the following Inputs:C4, C5, C6, C7, B0 and the Outputs: B1,B4,B5,B6, D6 on the luminary board.

==4/5/09==
  * Got the new charger in so we could fly the helicopter attached to the stand.
    * Helicopter needs more calibration (yaw servo)because the it keeps on spinning in circles to the right. Needs more manual trimming.
    * The spinning in the helicopter wound up the string in test stand, making it difficult for vertical movement—keep in mind while flying
    * Friction between the floor and the test stand is too great to allow movement—need to install wheels into the test stand.
  * Continuing to work on real-time bluetooth implementation.
  * Also got high current power supply to test helicopter without chaining 5 different dc power supplies to get enough current

==4/2/09==
  * Figured out how to make local variables :)
  * Retested outputs of actual helicopter mixers -- found out collective control was NOT Linear, need to update mixing VI
  * also servos work with a pwm at 50hz, but the hardware cannot support this. Trying to find alternatives and also talking to Trung about it.

==3/31/09==
  * temporary mixing/unmixing matrix has been assembled
  * working on sending more data through blue-tooth, real time. Still needs work

==3/27/09==
  * Vivian met with Trung to work on sending data through bluetooth.
  * success! Bluetooth is working!

==3/25/09==
  * Met with Trung at NI headquarters in Berkeley to talk about connections between components.
    * Will be using I2C between arduino and Luminary, All sensors with UART will go to the Luminary. SPI for magnetometer. 
    * clarified pins for ADC and digital IO's
  * will temporarily hold off on making PCB board until the we get the actual Bread board worknig 

==Spring Break==
Everybody should be working on their part of research as written on the milestone page, that is
  * Mixing - Matrix to convert servo inputs to controller inputs 
    *Terry, Emily 
  * Control Scheme - start with PID(Feedback system) and dynamics model 
    * Keaton, Vivian, Jason 
  * Interface with GPS - waypoints/google earth - magnetometer 
    * Jason, Emily, Terry 
  * Extended Kalman filter 
    * Keaton, Vivian 

==3/17-18/09==
  *  finished designing, drawing, and machining the test stand.
  * tested flight of helicopter with the test stand, but alas!
    * DISASTER! Either the li-po battery or charger is broken—battery won’t charge. Will contact helicopter people about possible replacements/fixing
    * might need to add cone to test stand for stabilizing the helicopter when not landed.

==3/12/09==
  * made milestones for the project to plan out remaining weeks – find it on our wiki!
  * Finalized hardware decisions
  * starting to use bluetooth to record data, having difficulties getting VI to work
  * starting to design PCB board for circuit. We want to have a board that will fit snug-ly into the luminary board. Will also include pins for Arduino, IMU, rangefinder, xbee for radio, power, filters, gps, and compass
    * need to figure out how to connect certain parts (microcontrollers, etc) through the serial connections, before completing pcb layout

==3/7/09==
  * Started reading signals from the accelerometer through the luminary board – very choppy signals
  * built filters for these signals—low pass filter that only allows signals < ~50 hz through
    * much nicer data with filters!
  * also we need more ADC , finding alternatives (ie mux, additional microcontroller)
  * VI for seeing data stopped working after a while, even after computer resets... need to talk to mentors about it.

_edit: apparently we were running the VI in debugging mode, which is why is stopped working_


==2/24/09==
  * Had a giant meeting with lots of mentors: Nimbus, George, Wenchao
    * discussed current project, scope, parts, recording flight data, using the Kalman filter
    * got to see Nimbus’s research lab – he is also working on rc helicopters but more for tracking helicopter movement with leds and cameras


==2/16-17/09==
  * possibility of competing in a UAV competition
  * slides completed, presenting on the 17th

==2/10/09==
  * Finished final version of project proposal
    * Group 8 is now SPARROW (Stable Pitch Aerobatics Research for Remotely Operated Whirlybird)
  * Microcontrollers and IMU have been ordered

==2/5/09==
  * After some discussion after class, we have an updated goal—The helicopter will now have an on-board autopilot, IMU (sensors for acceleration, tilt, and rotation), camera, and DGPS.From the ground-based computer we will pick where we want the helicopter to go on a map.  The computer will calculate a path for the helicopter to follow.  Once we click 'GO' the helicopter will travel to the chosen destinations.  The on-board camera will allow it to avoid objects during its flight.
    * that is--no aerobatic maneuvers
    * Will need to get the larger helicopter
    * need to change the microcontroller? And types of cameras?
  * Contacted Trung for help with project, camera and micro controller questions
    * should NOT stream video on bluetooth, use separate method (ex. Wifi)


==2/3/09==
Listing a few things to research
  # type of control scheme (proportional?)
  # signal conditioning (what types of filters are needed? effects?)
  # power supply filters (needed for micro controller and sensors? sizes?)
  # do we have enough digital/analog IO's?
  # is bluetooth fast enough for video feed? type of camera?
  # How do RC signals work? same as blue tooth?
  # possible aerobatic maneuvers?

==1/31/09==
Finalizing/ordering parts list
  # Arduino Pro Mini -- $20 http://www.sparkfun.com/commerce/product_info.php?products_id=8991
  # Bluesmirf -- $65 http://www.sparkfun.com/commerce/product_info.php?products_id=582
  # IMU 5 degrees of freedom -- $110 http://www.sparkfun.com/commerce/product_info.php?products_id=741
  # Exceed G2 6-channel RC helicopter -- $165 http://www.xheli.com/dr39elrcrare.html

other helicopter:

Exceed Blueray 450 --$250 http://www.xheli.com/exrc2450sert.html